# pyUtilities

A simple module of python utility functions for managing object graphs and in-memory dictionary databases.

## INTRO

These utility functions are for use when developing python code with graphs of objects. It contains functions for enabling JSON serialization of object classes in your graph and functions for using object graphs as in-memory databases.  

## Debugging Object Graphs

Often during development it can be useful to know if your object graph contains what you intended or is structured according to plans. *dumpObj()*
is intended to provide a way to review the organization and contents of your graph so that you can spot errors. 

*dumpObj()* is a recursive function that traverses an object instance 
    graph and prints-out the attributes. It formats the data with indentations 
    to make it more easily readable.

   *dumpObj()* is useful for verifying the contents or integrity of your 
    object graph during development.
    
### usage:

      dumpObj(YOUR_OBJECT_INSTANCE)

## In-memory Databases

Object graphs provide a useful way of implementing in-memory databases, where keys are well known and the volume of data is not huge compared to your computers' memory. Your code can persist these databases in a file using JSON. These utility functions provide a concise interface to insert into or select items from the object graph based on a list of keys that define the object's location:

*select()* is a recursive function that takes a dictionary graph (a __dict__ tree of of values and other python objects) and a list of keys and returns the object.

### usage:

      RESULT = select(ROOT_DICT_OF_OBJECT_GRAPH, [KEY1, KEY2, KEY3...])

*RESULT* will contain the object from the graph defined by tags or *None* if it does not exist.

*insert()* is a recursive function that places an object (*v*) into a graph as 
the leaf node described by tags. It creates any dictionary(s) required to 
instantiate the graph as described by tags. 
   
*v* may be any python object or None. *insert()* "should" always succeed.

### usage:

        insert(ROOT_DICT_OF_OBJECT_GRAPH, [KEY1, KEY2, KEY3...], [VALUE | LIST | DICT])

These utility functions provide the added bit of code that allows JSON to serialize and deserialize instance graphs that contain your python object classes:

*dumpJSON()* writes a JSON file from an object graph that may contain any python object, including those defined in your own code.

### usage

      dumpJSON(FILENAME, OBJECT)

*dumpJSONstr()* returns a JSON string from the *OBJECT* graph that may contain any python object, including those defined in your own code.  

 ### usage

      RESULT = dumpJSONstr(OBJECT)

*RESULT* will contain a JSON string represeting the *OBJECT* graph.

*loadJSON()* is a recursive function that loads a JSON file (as generated by dumpJSON) and deserializes it into an object instance graph.    

### usage

      RESULT = loadJSON(FILE_NAME)

*RESULT* will contain the object graph contained in *FILENAME* or *None* if it cannot be read.

